.. _xbmgmt2.rst:

xbmgmt (Next Generation)
========================

This document describes the new next-generation ``xbmgmt`` commands. These new commands are default from 21.1 release.   

P.S: Legacy ``xbmgmt`` commands are still available and can be invoked by ``xbmgmt --legacy <command>``.


**Global options**: These are the global options can be used with any command. 

 - ``--verbose``: Turn on verbosity and shows more outputs whenever applicable
 - ``--batch``: Enable batch mode
 - ``--force``: When possible, force an operation

The next-generation ``xbmgmt`` commands are

    - ``xbmgmt dump``
    - ``xbmgmt examine``
    - ``xbmgmt program``
    - ``xbmgmt reset``


xbmgmt dump
~~~~~~~~~~~


xbmgmt examine
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``xbmgmt examine`` command reports detail status information of the specified device

**The supported options**


.. code-block:: shell

    xbmgmt examine [--device| -d] <management bdf> [--report| -r] <report of interest> [--format| -f] <report format> [--output| -o] <filename>
 

**The details of the supported options**

- The ``--device`` (or ``-d``) specifies the target device to program
    
    - <management bdf> : The Bus:Device.Function of the device of interest

- The ``--report`` (or ``-r``) switch can be used to view specific report(s) of interest from the following options
          
    -  ``all``: All known reports are produced
    - ``firewall``: Firewall status
    - ``host``: Host information
    - ``mailbox``: Mailbox metrics of the device
    - ``mechanical``: Mechanical sensors on and surrounding the device
    - ``platform``: Platform information

- The ``--format`` (or ``-f``) specifies the report format. Note that ``--format`` also needs an ``--output`` to dump the report in json format. If ``--output`` is missing text formt will be shown in stdout
    
    - ``JSON``: The report is shown in latest JSON schema
    - ``JSON-2020.2``: The report is shown in JSON 2020.2 schema

- The ``--output`` (or ``-o``) spcifies the output file to direct the output
    

**Example commands** 


.. code-block:: shell

      
    #Report all the information for a specific device
    xbmgmt examine --device 0000:d8:00.0 --report all
    
    #Reports platform information of two devices and dump to a file
    xbmgmt examine --device 0000:b3:00.0 --report platform --format JSON --output output.json



xbmgmt program
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**The supported usecases and their options**

Program the Base partition (applicable for 1RP platform too)

.. code-block:: shell

    xbmgmt program [--device|-d] <management bdf> [--base|-b] 

Program the Shell Partition for 2RP platform

.. code-block:: shell

    xbmgmt program [--device| -d] <management bdf> [--shell|-s] <shell partition file with path>  


Program the user partition with an XCLBIN file

.. code-block:: shell

    xbmgmt program [--device| -d] <management bdf> [--user|-u] <XCLBIN file with path>  


Revert to golden image

.. code-block:: shell

    xbmgmt program [--device| -d] <management bdf> --revert-to-golden


**The details of the supported options**

- The ``--device`` (or ``-d``) specifies the target device to program
    
    - <management bdf> : The Bus:Device.Function of the device of interest
 
- The ``--base`` option is used to update the base partition. This option is applicable for both the 1RP and 2RP platform. No action is performed if the card's existing base partition is already up-to-date, or in a higher version, or a different platform's partition. 

- The ``--shell`` option is used to program shell partition, applicable for 2RP platform only. The user can get the full path of installed shell partition in the system from the json file generated by ``xbmgmt examine -r platform --format json --output <output>.json`` command 

    - <shell partition with path> : The shell partition with full path to program the shell partition

- The ``--user`` (or ``-u``) is required to specify the .xclbin file
    
    - <xclbin file> : The xclbin file with full-path to program the device
    
- The ``--revert-to-golden`` command is used to reverts the flash image back to the golden version of the card.	


**Example commands**


.. code-block:: shell
 
     #Program the base partition 
     xbmgmt program --device 0000:d8:00.0 --base
     
     #Program the shell partition
     xbmgmt program --device 0000:d8:00.0 --shell <partition file with path>
 
     xbmgmt program --device 0000:d8:00.0 --revert-to-golden




xbmgmt reset
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``xbmgmt reset`` command can be used to reset device. 


**The supported options**

.. code-block:: shell

    xbmgmt reset [--device| -d] <management bdf> 


**The details of the supported options**

- The ``--device`` (or ``-d``) specifies the target device to reset
    
    - <management bdf> : The Bus:Device.Function of the device of interest
    

**Example commands**


.. code-block:: shell
 
    xbmgmt reset --device 0000:65:00.0

